[Music]
hey everybody welcome to another episode
of impact theory i am here with a return
visit from the legendary iceman himself
wim hof
welcome to the show man
thanks thanks for having me dude i am
really excited to dive into a part two
here um the first time that we met it
was really extraordinary we went pretty
hard on the things that you're typically
known for but in the new book
um the wim hof method you go into a lot
of detail about something i wasn't
expecting to see in your book which is
your personal story
how you were raised how you
developed your free spirit and
willingness to not fit in and sort of
the power of the mind and so you've said
that there are three pillars and i think
this is really what i want to get into
today so you've got
cold exposure
breathing and the power of the mind and
so i want to start with
you as a kid coming into the world with
a difficult birth how did that begin to
plant the seeds why did you open the
book of that
i think everybody in the world
who suffered a trauma
is deeply impacted
and
i was impacted from my birth because i
was the second one
and nobody expected in those days there
were no echo scopia
uh
devices measurement
things it was all on a
on a horn a little a little
wooden horn and so when you say you're
the second one you mean you were an
identical twin your brother was born
they send your mom back to the the
recovery room
exactly and then they found out oh there
is another one
let's get him out through with cesaria
because he has to deep in
and we cannot get him out otherwise he's
going to suffocate
so they pushed me to the operation room
and just before the operation room and
my mother was
uh she was aware they were going to do
with cesarea she it's like fear
and and she was a pious woman
so
her belief
came to oh god let this child live i
will make him a missionary and then she
pushed me out
in front of the rubber doors of the
operation group and that's the way i
came to the world purple
because i always suffocated and in the
cold of the whole
that's it with that invocation
with that invocation and that trauma
together that imprints deeply into his
psych even when it is a baby and has no
reference
inside of the brain it gets into that
system and that make me always different
than of my identical twin and then at
the age of 17
i felt this attraction to go into cold
water
and then i i knew it when i went in for
the first time freezing water i knew
this is it
not this is the thing you've been
looking for
yes connection with the deep imprint of
my own personal trauma and now
it shows the people going
into this
cold practice and into these breathing
uh practices which comes from the cold
because when you go into the cold
you do
you come alive you come alive in
connection with your biochemistry and
you begin to feel and understand sense
that you are able to change the
biochemistry
by deep breathing and what we do in our
society is shallow breathing
we don't know the power of our own
breath and therefore we don't know how
to connect with our biochemistry when it
goes wrong because of stress could be
virus bacteria biological poison it
could be a mental stress emotional
whatever the stress is it has an impact
on our biochemistry
and through the deep breathing and
manipulating the breath you are able to
alter the biochemistry again how simple
it all is and because nobody
wanted to understand that this is
happening and that oh it's just
philosophy he's crazy what he is doing
is crazy
then i went to the university
and they injected me with a with a
bacteria
and then i showed after 16 000 people
who became sick with the same
model of experimenting which is an e
coli bacteria injection it's a
controlled endotoxemia model to
experiment to find out
about the immune system are we able to
tap into the immune system sixteen
thousand hundred and thirty-four people
all became sick
and then i came in and i showed i did
not became sick with the same injection
of the e coli
that that's a a very extraordinary
journey and your book does an incredible
job of putting some structure to how we
tie
this traumatic birth to then how we're
able to shut down an endotoxin when it's
injected in us and i want to try to
recreate some of that here so i actually
wrote down a quote if i can this is you
um verbatim from an interview that you
did
and i thought that it was really really
interesting and you said
i'm i'm doing right now with top
researchers on dna to show that we have
the absolute influence neurologically at
will to enter into our own ancestral
encrypted codes of the dna our genetic
past to enlighten our past right here in
the moment
now if if anybody else made that claim
uh i would probably be pretty dismissive
of
its veracity but when you make it it
really makes me want to stop and go okay
what is it that leads you to say that
and then how does that really manifest
so i want to go back to the two things
you said at the beginning that there was
this traumatic birth and an invocation
and tying that to this idea of the power
of the mind and one last element which
is you saying that modern society has
disconnected us from our our natural
environment what we're sort of from a
evolutionary past what we're meant to do
so help me understand how
your traumatic birth
leads you to become okay with being
different than everybody so that you can
discover this ability for us to
reconnect
yes exactly so
it was my mother a very pious naive
mother in those days you could not work
anymore when you married
you had to stop working
so you could not go by law
yes by law
by law everybody the man has to provide
that was in those days so she was at
home she was
intelligent
but she had no career only having
children
but she was also pious
a god-fearing person
and
she said that at that moment that
invocation that she was going to make
you a missionary
yes
yes and i was not aware of that
only i was different and i came to know
by talking to my mother
later very much later that she said that
and and she told me uh the whole book
and she knew it like it was yesterday
so
uh she told me that 48 years later
i am in new york
i am doing a experiment
in the feinstein biochemical institute
and i am connected
uh to take blood uh out of me while i'm
doing what i'm doing a hard meter long
meter it's all connected in a warm nice
room and they asked me
do what the iceman is doing
i just did breathing techniques and i
gave it all it gave it so much that they
had to
uh take away the lung liter because i
stayed more than two minutes without
breathing and then you get a flat line
they thought it's defect
and then they took it out they came in
another one
defect again and at the third machine
i was on
i was on and i didn't care anymore i i
stayed there for one hour and a quarter
in that room and they took all the blood
and a week later
they called me that was dr ken carmen
and he said we have the blood results
and
and it
shows that if you are able to reproduce
this in a group of people
then that means huge consequences for
human mankind and then he named all
these diseases related to the results i
had let out there in the feinstein
institute a week ago in the blood
showing that i was controlling the vagus
nerve and the vagus nerve is considered
to be in signs in medical science not to
be controlled by humans it cannot but i
showed big control in the vagus nerve
and if you are able to control influence
into the vagus nerve you are able to
bring down inflammation and inflammation
is the cause and effect of any disease
now when you say that you could control
the vagus nerve are you talking about
they could measure an electrical
stimulus that you were sending to it
no
they uh
they took my blood and within the blood
related to the vagus nerve there are 307
blood values
and those blood values showed a complete
difference
than of a normal test person when dr ken
carmilla had called me
with the results saying
if you are able to reproduce this that
that means huge consequences for human
mankind
and then he named all these diseases
half hour and then i mean at that moment
in the telephone of course i can do that
the missionary was born
consciously to my to my brain to my
consciousness my awareness it was there
boom
without saying half hour later i got a
telephone that my mother had died
you see how it all connects
and
this is just a personal story everybody
has beautiful personal stories
and magic happens only if you look for
it and and it makes all sense if you
look deeply within yourself and find out
why you are here what for and that you
have a great
impact possible by standing up and do
things out of the box and do it be
audacious
have no fear
how much though do you think that that
is they just don't know how to access
that part of their brain you said in the
book something that i i think addresses
the opioid crisis more profoundly which
is
you said everybody who looks towards the
light is looking for purpose
and when i think about the opioid crisis
i think about that like people not
knowing what they want in life people
feeling completely disconnected from the
world around them from their body
um what do you think about
yes into the darkness into the know
knowledge into being desperately out
there into letting it go they are
completely lost in their lives
that the purpose of life itself is in
inside the brainstem
the brainstem is about life
about survival life and death
so life is like light that is like shut
down darkness over done
the light and
how by neurology what is neurology
it's electricity it's potential neural
transmitters
and you are the alchemist you are able
this is what we have shown as well
how to produce neural a hundred
new a percent percent neural activity in
the brain and with that you make the
right biochemistry inside the brain for
the will which is neurotransmitters to
connect with any part of the brain
that's the way we are naturally built to
do but because of our behavior we
disconnected from the right uh
biochemistry and we are limited we are
narrow minded
and
the expansion of the neurology inside
the brain which should be
until you die expanding
like fresh like a tree it always goes on
r r every spring new neurology neurology
bigger bigger expansion expansion of
consciousness
and when you're ready you're ready man
and then you have no fear you can go
you can go you fly
you know why
and it is all in
and that neurology now is the power of
the mind which we are going to show but
because nobody was listening
and thinking that man is crazy that's
why i work with the top researchers in
the world because the natives hundreds
of years ago they knew
i bless your seven generations before
and you're seven generations to come
what kind of stupidity is that
let's take over their land it's a no you
are too primitive
and now i tell you we go back to our
nativeness we go back to respect and
ancestry and we go back to purpose and
now we can do this consciously before
tell me tell me what the point is why
why respect your ancestry to an eastern
mind i think that makes immediate sense
to a western mind i don't know that it
does
because
your purpose if you get into the dna
into the encrypted codes damaged by
trauma
of your ancestors who passed on in
generations their trauma
in their genetics
then you feel relieved you feel
enlightened
so if we go for the best within
ourselves
for a freedom a fair state of being a
very powerful being that is not being
withhold without by anything if you like
that
then you have to go and deal with the
encrypted codes in the dna and release
it not in being profane and shallow but
going into the depth and now we have uh
now we know how to do it that's exactly
what i was going to ask so i think when
people hear you talk about getting back
into your dna
going at one point you'd mention going
back 11 generations it sounds a little
bit like past lives or somehow
connecting to like a narrative or a
story
but i'm curious if what you've been
laying out in the wim hof method meaning
that we're exposing ourselves to the
cold we're learning how to breathe we're
reconnecting with nature we're tapping
into that lizard brain the brain stem
the fight-or-flight mechanisms and
beginning to develop conscious control
is that what you mean that more holistic
view of your own life of being exposed
to the elements or is there something
about like actually sort of going within
yourself and meeting your grandfather
your great grandmother so on and so
forth
yeah that one is very interesting the
last part
but now you come not only in the ability
to enter into your dna
and how to strengthen your cell
how to influence the length of your life
the quality of life because it all
relates to the building blocks of life
itself which is the dna and the genes
and the cell structure
by going into these exercises you will
be able to grasp
the purpose of your being the purpose of
the power of your mind to enter into the
deepest of the cell
to
protect the self from inflammation
oxidative stress
and to
to see
to
to see the repair the deep healing
inside and feel great about it is that
an intuitive connection though because
when i i'm trying to reconcile
when you talk about the things that you
do and the method that you use and when
somebody injects you with the toxin and
how you're doing it um it isn't like a
conscious thing at least that i've
understood from you saying it's not like
you say dear immune system create more
white blood cells go and attack this
maybe you do now because you understand
the mechanisms but certainly when you
were starting you didn't necessarily
know what was going on of course
so is when you say go inside the cell
what do you mean
what do i mean is going into the deepest
and
feel no inhibition to solve anything
that concerns my life my purpose my
being
by connecting to the lizard brain
brainstem
limbic system to go
in
here it is and to go
now
to the threshold
of the power of our
unlimited power of our own brain that's
that's what i'm at and i'm only at the
threshold i'm showing now that placebo
does not exist anymore it is now
conscious control
and this is what the process is
interesting
yeah this is what the professors say wim
hof has found
uh the power the secret of placebo
and that means the healing power within
us
is now able to be not only there because
we believe it but also to be amplified
if it's necessary can i say what i think
you just said in different words and you
tell me if i've got this correctly
by exposing ourselves to cold by
learning to breathe and by letting go as
we're experiencing this pain letting go
not fighting it so we can develop a
connection to the brain stem essentially
the unlimited power that we're
experiencing of the mind is unlimited in
terms of the body that you can take
control through intention you talked
earlier about the power of intention
through intention
but not like consciously saying go
create 72 000 more white blood cells but
just through that connection that you
now have had by letting go and not
resisting
yeah the power of intention you don't
need to know this all
uh to get there you'd i i i never saw
dna in the wild i didn't see a bacteria
in the wild or a virus in the wild
it's too wild for words but this is
where we got
with our extension tools our uh
measurement devices microscopes and all
those things we learned
to
take that as the truth
so i go through the truth
through what we think is the truth
because we left our simple uh belief in
the power of our mind just to create
happiness strength and health and
guarantee it for our children no we had
to take the land and more and more and
produce and more and more and go to the
moon man this world is beautiful
make of this world a beautiful place
instead of the pollution that is
existent right now
and exploitation and insensitivity we
have to stop this that is craziness that
craziness we gotta stop the world is
sick the world needs to stop and to
begin to see that we are simple
beautiful beings with the power of
intention and it's called love
to guarantee love composed by happiness
strength and health and a confident
guarantee that we are able to stand for
that and to give that to our children
and all the beings around us we lost it
we are into production
insensitivity competition we lost the
best within ourselves our simplicity now
is complicated and there we are and that
deregulates our systems we go to the
moon we go to mars but we don't know how
to stop autoimmune diseases cancer
depression
and name it and more and more anxiety
anxiety fear for death fear what is the
soul it's still unknown and i tell you
it is the time for the soul
through all these mechanistic
devices that are able to measure up
until the nanometer
i mean to everything we will show that
the purpose of life is right within us
and we have a control over the mind
possibly everybody at birthright by
birthright to control our brain not
sixteen percent at will but hundred and
now we are showing this
i want people to understand i think
they're gonna get it immediately
emotionally what you're saying like just
listening to you is always intoxicating
because you have so much energy and it's
so infectious
the book does an extraordinary job of
helping people understand how to
reconnect to nature and i want to talk
about that there's a key part in the
book that i i thought was really
profound around that eight year period
of your life where you were squatting
you said you'd always felt like a black
sheep in your family and that period
gave you the willingness to step outside
of the box right walk us through that
what was that period why was it so
meaningful to find true freedom
yes
i call it free thinking
it was a free thinking block in the
middle of amsterdam
it was a place where 100 people
lived together in two courtyards a
former orphanage
and i could play in the hallway
guitar the lyrics out nobody was yelling
oh you got to stop the music there's a
shut up and oh no i was able to do
yoga naked in the courtyard
and i didn't give a [__] about nobody i
felt just great doing it and there i
developed this sense to go to the park
and go into the cold water
and it made me able to sit outside in
this snow at a certain moment very fast
tapping into my own system awakening my
deeper physiology to my mind i could sit
all night long in my shorts outside in
the snow
things like that
you could
just let go you had not to follow what
are you letting go of
letting go of this restrictive way of
thinking you gotta go get a job
yeah
career you gotta be in complete
competition you have to become better
you have to married and you have to get
a house you have to be catholic you have
to go to church you have to have to have
to have to have to have you have to that
have to was gone
if you let a mind evolve naturally it
comes to great powers and it is f as if
we enter in this society into a spell
into a spell of being limited
in our
power to experience our soul
and what is that spell culture
family pressures all of the above yes
don't if you look at the world then you
see where it got to
the world is polluting
and it doesn't give a ship
the world is on fire nobody gives a [__]
only the people the locals but the rest
of the world is just watching
war is going on watching
refugees are
drowning little children are drowning we
are watching the production that is
important money that is important
competition that is important
people die in the hospitals
because of the covet i they don't talk
about
how to strengthen your own immune system
why
we have shown in 2014
tom
we have shown how to suppress
effectively with a group of people so
the scientific evidence
that within a quarter of our using
specific breathing techniques to alter
the immune system
to make the innate immune system go down
that means the cytokine storm which is
the damaging factor of covet
of covet 19 damaging factor is
inflammation inflammatory markers number
uh interleukin number one number six
number eight and number 11. i looked it
all up and we already showed
that in blood proof
in the whole group it went down with a
within a quarter of an hour doing these
breathing techniques we from nature
coming we are built to defy disease
it is
oh [__] happens no only good [__] should
happen and we are in charge of just that
i will go on and show it until nature
comes back
and being respected because what we are
doing now is killing nature it's not
only killing nature outside it's killing
our uh the future generations of us
because we are wrong tracked
it's it's this system
is is wrong it has it's obsolete it's
like on the computer
ctrl alt delete
no there is a virus inside it needs to
be debugged our paradigm needs to be
changed
shift it so i want to i want to go back
to that the notion of debugging so when
you're in this
for lack of a better word sort of
commune
you guys don't have to worry about a job
because you're only paying for utilities
and you're letting go of what society is
telling you you should think of you're
breaking that spell that you talked
about that we're all sort of born into
that seems to me like a really important
part of what you're saying the people
have to let go of all of that before
they can re-center with nature
and then now once they're re-centered
around nature they'll be able to start
building something up that power of
intention
in a way that makes more sense and yeah
we talked about this briefly in our last
interview and you you go into it in the
book in a way that i'd never heard you
talk about before with the suicide of
your wife
and you what i found very interesting
was you said when you saw her after she
had killed herself that you actually
looked at her face and and thought for
the first time that the shadow that had
gripped her had gone away
talk to me about that as as how you
chose to see it because it would be very
easy to only see the tragedy
how how did you get yourself to a place
where you could see something more
yes
when i heard she had
jumped from eight stories down
after kissing her uh
babies goodbye
then that that was a beautiful woman and
you see a photo of her in the in the
book she was a a a beautiful woman
and she was alive always and then this
shadow came it was as if the exorcist
was there that the only way to get rid
of this terror of this possessive being
inside
or was to jump down it was terrorizing
her and that
i could not do anything at that moment
i could not i was brokenhearted i went
there i cried with the father over the
uh over her dead body
when it was there in the in the morgue
and
and i saw her face it was for the first
time
it was soft it was a liar
again the woman i knew of before
there was peace
and the rest uh of course i was broken
about it and i
i had to deal with four children which i
had with her my children made me survive
the cold water it healed me because in
the cold water you don't think
you go into the brain stem
you go into a non-thinking part of your
own brain because you have to survive at
that moment uh freezing water and it
does it and that gives me the slack to
uh for my system to go in and not into
a crying and and nervous system
of action and oh oh oh no then
and then their body is able to heal it's
able to go into parasympathetic mode in
nature
when zebras get attacked a couple of
moments later they shake it off the fear
but in my case
with humans we hold on with through our
thoughts so but going into the cold and
i recommend this for everybody who
suffers from people who are suiciding or
tragic deaths
go into the cold water it makes you a
body being able to reset
to find the energy the purpose again
because i needed to have purpose for uh
creating a new nest for my four children
without money
i did it i did it and they had a great
youth
because i was always there like the sun
i had energy all over it's
because that's what
the call does it it gives you
you have to have energy here otherwise
you're going to die so
for the rest of the day you got bloody
much energy
so that that was great for the children
and now they work with me they work and
they believe it there before when i when
they were young i could not appear on
school yard in the winter time in my
short doing uh
doing handstands and splits
yeah i had to uh
wait like all the other mothers and
fathers did smoking a cigarette and then
you are normal no i was doing my
in shorts and uh doing splits in in
mid-winter getting them from the school
then it was not a day they felt a little
bit ashamed but now
now
they know it now they have become
instructors themselves into a method
which bears their father's name
so
we are healing people by the thousands
ten tens of thousands hundreds of
thousands i don't know i i lost count i
just keep on going the other thing is in
detroit in detroit i showed in the brain
scans
i showed a that i was capable to control
this is what they said the uh uh
now we have the compelling evidence of
the key components of the autonomous
processes autonomous is outside of our
will now inside of our will are related
to moot regulation
the autonomous processes in the brain
related to mood regulation and then he
sat at the professor vibe of divakar he
told me when
this technique is this transformational
technique will go and change mental
health care
and then my cycle was around
because when my wife died i was hopeless
i was powerless i could not do anything
and they shot injections pills therapy
it only went down down down down down
nothing but now let me tell you anybody
who's depressed and he's going to start
to do this
and to do it right you will get a
absolute control within his brain over
whatever is happening over there the
biochemistry the hormonal uh
homeostasis of dopamine serotonin he
gets uh he will learn to regulate his
mood at will this was thought of in
psychiatry impossible only long therapy
i see and i tell you within 10 minutes
15 minutes at the most
people get the sense that they are in
control
if they're doing it that fast is that
through the breathing work or is that
from the cold exposure or sort of
interrupting their negative thoughts
what how's it able to take hold so fast
so with the breathing
with the breathing techniques you
absolutely enter into the stress mode
they saw this this is what they saw but
the uh the principle is right in when
your functionality needs to be at best
that's in danger
then the adrenal axis is activated and
anything that should not be there
to uh to interrupt with the
functionality to flee and or fight that
is going to be get rid of the body knows
how to do that one thing is depression
the other thing is disease that's why
people when they are in war and somebody
shot their leg off they still are able
to order the people around
uh because their adrenaline is gone
so they don't feel it their opioids are
done it's blocked they gotta function
that's why that's what that adrenaline
is now
they did compare the breathing exercises
in the blood blood samples
people lying on
on the bad sofa
and they compared the blood results
together with people going into their
first in fear into their first bungee
jump
and they saw
the people doing at the breathing
exercises lying feeling kind of high on
their own supply
like harish nice and
they had more adrenaline lying on bed
than the people in fear going into their
first bungee jump that's so
counterintuitive whim that you would one
would think if you've got somebody who's
depressed that you
want to calm them down you want to get
them to relax and make things easy the
idea of getting them so stressed through
breathing that they have a higher stress
response than somebody who's about to
bungee jump
that's really intriguing
yes and the thing is they don't notice
that
uh consciously they feel kind of
high-ish
this breathing technique is so amazing i
was uh doing this with the people who
are
paralyzed
and these breathing exercises they
exercise the vascular system
more than somebody who is running
imagine people who are paralyzed
they cannot run they cannot walk they
can't do anything like that and now they
are able through breathing exercises to
exercise their
vascular system more than somebody is
running and more adrenaline than
somebody who is going into its first
bungee jump what a healing properties it
must have they get to their
functionality they felt happy
that's what they said this should be
spread all over the world in any
revalidation center in the world doing
do it do it guys do it and drain and
stimulate also your vascular system with
the gold to
go hand gloves in ice water and do like
this because even though you don't feel
it it still reacts and you know what
happens until all the veins they are
connected to the nervous system to open
and close
is the nervous system so it is an
indirect way to reboot to er to to to
get to get the engine going in a
different way they shoot bloody
investigate any doctor who is listening
now
get into this [__] because it really
works so getting back with the
depression it is depression and the
hormonal system is at work there is a
lack of serotonin and dopamine that is
depression depression is loss of
pressure
loss of pressure
caused by a uh
this equilibrium of dopamine serotonin
in the cell in the neurons
so
in the ganglia inside
and so there is a lag and that's what we
call depression then you don't feel good
when you get into adrenaline
then it shoots out through the body and
it rebalances everything what needs to
be rebalanced it's directly connected
because adrenaline is a hormone
it knows those are messengers electrical
signals and they they do their thing
almost
instantly
is there a little blockage of
conditioning a wrong wiring of such a
long time it just passed through because
it's stronger than somebody who goes
into his first
bungee jump i mean you are not even
aware that it is happening
when you are lying there and doing the
breathing and but afterwards you will
see
people who are depressed suddenly you
have said
wow
i didn't feel so good
says i don't know what happened what
happened you know being flabbergasted
that's what you want in the beginning
with people not talking no cognitive
therapy
let them do and feeling is the
understanding
this is all all what i'm saying about
the ancestry about
the way the cell works the telomeres the
gene expressions
i go
anywhere until
this
nature is back to us to be lived in
harmony with and to be happy strong and
healthy for everybody in the world and
there is little money present because
unconditional love doesn't need money if
you are a love in a woman
man you fly you don't think
that's what you want you want to feel
the love for life and that's who we are
spiritually and that this is all about
and i like your questions
and i like your inquisitive nature since
the last time you did your homework
that's good because i want to polish the
diamond of the truth anytime through the
right critical questions
so i'm on there and
together we are like brothers
spiritual brothers we bring
evidence-based clarity to the people
and and we develop ways together
you got a lot of money but you don't
give a [__] about about it you give a
[__] about this
and that is good
that is the goodness of your heart it's
still there that makes you a very good
man
thank you man i appreciate that very
much i love that you're willing to put
this all out there that you're willing
to be tested i remember the first time i
came across you
god 15 years ago i mean it's a long time
ago and it was the i think the bbc
documentary you did about becoming
superhuman or whatever and you were of
course the iceman and they showed you
doing all the crazy feats that you've
done um you're now you've run a marathon
without water in the desert
people think of you obviously as the
iceman for very clear reasons but i see
you now experimenting with other things
how did you manage to run a marathon i
don't think people could do that in a
normal environment let alone in the
middle of the desert um is it just that
this applies to
controlling your physiology like
how did that work or did you have to
train for the heat
no absolutely no training and i'm not a
runner at all
i just got an idea that was half year
before i run the marathon that was my
second marathon
the first one was uh like
it was it was the bbc who called me he
said well we got a series on the
superhuman we got the spiderman we got
the man on wire and we got the birdman
and they call you the iceman i thought
wow right nice name so yes do you know
any by any chance any challenge coming
up and you could be in the series
and then i made it up while i was on the
phone yes i can run i never run a
marathon at all i i i'm not into running
maybe a couple of miles that's it but i
will run a marathon and it's in two
months okay in two months i will run a
marathon mid
beyond the polish circle in my shorts
yes yes yes yes yes
they said and then two months later i
was there and when i did it
then i thought hey i did it all i stood
in the ice i swam in the ice i i've been
running
i've been climbing mountains in the eyes
all in short i did it you know what now
i will go to the heat
so
half a year later without training
i was in the namib desert
and i run a married full marathon
because of my confidence because i know
how to deal with stress that's it i got
deep confidence therein it's like if you
know how to drive you you don't feel
anxiety going into the car and going to
drive
but
it's foolish to go without anxiety and
you cannot drive
because
accidents will happen
but i was trained i got my driver
license by years going into stressful
situations and that the cold uh teaches
you not only to how to deal with
temperature mechanisms in the deep uh
the depth of the brain but it also
teaches you how to deal with stress how
to go consciously into the stress so the
the preparation i did before running
into the marathon in the nabib desert
was drinking two cups of coffee
that it that it was
and then i did that
then i did that and i did a lot of
different uh challenges and every time
you go into the unknown and the moral of
it all is if you go
to something stressful that is hormatic
exercising which is going to be a new
area of exploration for all scientists
in the world we are inaugurating this
now
with a dna study with the top
researchers in the in the us
and then
it's a new area where the brain
at the threshold of the power of the
mind is going to be opened to the
awareness of everybody in the world what
you do with it is your business i love
it man
where can people find you where can they
get the book the wim hof method
yeah
actually i don't know
yeah i love that about you
i don't know where they can get the book
uh is it amazon or something it will
certainly be on amazon absolutely um i'm
sure everywhere books are sold
yes amazing amazon i heard amazon and uh
and uh
there is a free app this is a free app
on we developed this and every month we
update and we make it better and it's
beautiful app it works wonders millions
are doing this now
yes
and so it's for free and we put a lot of
money into it so it is accessible you
don't need to buy the book but do the
app
do the app and get and explore the depth
of yourself it's accessible now it's
powerful effective it's called love for
life
i love it man
guys check out the book he puts himself
out there in the way that he does
everywhere giving you things you can use
to cure a headache uh for anybody that
wants this one he's got coverage on how
to deal with a hangover he's got all
kinds of stuff he walks you through step
by step on how to do the wim hof method
and this book was really beautiful in a
way that i found
moving and surprising going into how he
developed discipline as a kid the things
we talked about the traumatic birth the
invocation and how to make that all
meaningful how to let go of the
trappings that society puts on everybody
to dare to be different it's really
really good and it touches on things
that um you might not expect in a book
titled the wim hof method it is far
bigger than just cold exposure just
breathing
really does dive into the power of the
mind wham as always my friend thank you
so much for joining me and guys if you
haven't already be sure to subscribe and
until next time my friends be legendary
take care
by being non-stimulative in our behavior
we lost the connection in the depth of
our physiology because we are able to
adapt about to anything
we are built to be able to adapt without
stress
into any stressful situation i get a
solution the body knows